# LVR SAT SOLVER

Course project for FMF LVR 2017: a simple SAT solver implemented in Haskell.

## Building and running

This project uses Cabal. Build it by running `cabal build` in the root
directory. This creates an executable called `LVR-SAT-solver` in
`dist/build/LVR-SAT-solver/`. Alternatively, if you don't want to use Cabal, you
can build it by running `ghc Main.hs -o LVR-SAT-solver` from the `src`
directory.

To run the program, run `./LVR-SAT-solver <infile> <outfile>`. This will read
the `<infile>` in DIMACS CNF format, solve it and write the result to
`<outfile>`.

This repository also includes a testing module `src/TestValuation.hs` that
checks if a valuation satisfies a formula. It is intended to be run by running
`runhaskell TestValuation.hs formula result` from the `src` directory or by
running the `runtests.sh` scripts, that tests and times the program against all
files in the `benchmark` directory.

## Implementation details

A formula is represented by a list of clauses represented by sets of literals. I
decided to use sets because assignments can be handled efficiently with set
operations.

The program uses a variant of the DPLL algorithm without heuristics or pure
literal elimination. I tried implementing these optimizations, but it turned out
that searching for pure literals, or the right literal to assign, made the
program run slower on large test files.

Unit clause assignments are done in a single pass, so the solver should work
best with files that contain lots of short clauses, for example colorability
problems.

## Example

The `example` directory contains a formula for 3-colorability of a network that
represents the source code of the Apache Lucene search engine library
(`lucene.cnf`). The graph contains 2956 vertices and 10872 edges and the formula
contains 8868 variables and 41484 clauses. On my computer, this problem is
solved in about 30 seconds.

The example was generated by the Julia script
`example/example-gen/colorability.jl` that contains a function, `fromfile(n,
input, output)`, that transforms a graph in Pajek NET format to an
n-colorability problem CNF formula. It requires the `LightGraphs` and `GraphIO`
libraries to run.
